[shocked gasps]
Is he dead?
No... He's alive -
I can feel it.
Huh?
Dai: He's barely
hanging on by a thread...
I don't think he
can fight anymore.
Vearn: Clever, indeed.
I couldn't withstand
that much force...
Even with the protection of
my mighty Staff of Edacity.
Vearn: [gasp]
Vearn: Although, it would
appear as if its power
was all that stood
between me and my demise.
A truly impressive display.
Your father would be proud.
[chuckling]
Testing the combined strength
of all Dragon Knights
nearly destroyed me.
Vearn: I was certain I had a
firm grasp of your abilities...
Only, once again,
you've gone above and
beyond my expectations.
I'll give credit
where it is due,
but I won't have you
kill me like this.
After all, this body...
is what I suppose you'd
call the mere base of me.
The "base" of you?
Y-You mean...
Vearn: That's right, Dai.
It sounds a bit like a riddle,
but the simplest
way to put it...
is that the man
standing before us
both is and is
not the Dark King.
There's no other explanation.
The Secret Spell
of Frozen time
isn't the type of incantation
you can cast upon yourself.
Moreover, only
those who've mastered
the highest levels of
Magic Power are able to
conjure it without
catastrophe.
In my case, because
I wasn't strong enough
to keep its force
concentrated on my enemy,
not only did I wind up
caught in the spell myself,
but Hadlar was also
able to escape.
So my friends and I
banded together again
and vowed to finish
what we'd started.
I trained until I perfected
my Avan Style Sword Technique -
to defeat the
Dark Lord for good.
Avan: But that's beside
the point. Here's my theory...
The only one who
could correctly perform
the Secret Spell of Frozen
Time is the Dark King himself.
Therefore...
I suspect he's found a method
that allows him to
occupy two bodies.
Avan: The Mystvearn we thought
we were facing all this time...
Never actually existed
in the first place.
Avan: He said it himself...
But what's less
obvious is who said it.
I gather the real Myst is a
creature of the Underworld...
A creature Vearn's entrusted
to guard his true form...
Or perhaps only a copy of it.
Whatever it is,
he's fused with it,
creating what we
know as "Mystvearn."
A being suspended within
the Secret Spell of Frozen
time becomes immovable.
They're turned into
a living statue.
But in theory,
if there happened to be a
certain type of monster...
able to merge with that body
and assume control of it...
Then the result would
be a superior warrior
with a body that's
more or less immortal.
And the monster who
possesses such abilities
is none other than "Myst."
Show yourself.
[chuckling]
Wh-What happened to his voice?
So this is the real voice
he's been hiding all this time.
Myst: You're spot-on
as usual, Avan.
This body does indeed
belong to the Dark King.
As a matter of fact,
it's his original vessel.
Myst: His Majesty
left it in my care,
along with strict
orders to keep
its identity hidden
at all costs...
In the meantime,
he's been gracious enough
to allow me to use this
body's terrifying strength
to fight when necessary.
Of course, I require
King Vearn's permission
before I can unleash
its full omnipotence...
Nevertheless, I am
the inky black Myst,
shrouding the true appearance
of my sovereign master...
That is to say...
I am Mystvearn!
Vearn: The time has come.
It's the Dark King!
Myst: Oh! Y-Your Majesty...
Please forgive me.
The Reaper was defeated, and
left to my own devices, I...
I had no choice.
Vearn: It matters not.
Let us admit the
uncomfortable truth.
This party's power has
proven to be greater than
either of us anticipated.
Vearn: I almost met my own
destruction at Dai's hand.
It seems that at long last,
the day has arrived
where I must take
back the dreadful force
I have placed in your care.
Myst: My liege...
I shall return it at once.
The true incarnation of
the Dark King Vearn
is unrivaled in
the Trio of Worlds.
Dai will be no match for it.
Where did he go now?
[alarmed breath]
In order to extend my lifespan
to the point where I could
enjoy the fruits of eternity...
A sacrifice was needed,
and I divided my body in two.
This base form I've inhabited
retains my collected
wisdom and Magic Power...
While my youth and
strength have been preserved
in the body I've
had Mystvearn guarding.
Every century, at the height
of each full solar eclipse,
I recast the Secret
Spell of Frozen Time,
sealing myself in
peak condition,
ready to be unleashed
when challengers arise.
And thanks to you we
shall finally reunite.
How many millennia
has it been?
I stopped keeping
track so long ago...
This... is no longer needed.
Lon Beruk's Staff of Edacity
has served its purpose well...
but I've grown beyond it.
True Vearn: I knew I'd need
something to compensate
for my weaker, elderly form...
It was designed
for my protection.
But now that this
body is whole again,
I have all that I need.
I've been returned to my
full power so quickly...
this could take me a
little getting used to.
Then again, what's the
harm in going overboard?
Given what he's told us,
it looks as if my
hypothesis was correct...
And now Vearn has reclaimed
control of his original body.
Well, it's no wonder we lost.
If we were fighting
against someone who was
wielding the power of
the Dark King Vearn himself,
then I'm amazed we even
managed to keep up at all.
What a gutless little joker.
Showing off and
boasting about power
that really belonged
to somebody else...
This creature
was just a parasite.
I'll wager he couldn't
do anything on his own.
Myst: Mind your
words, metal man...
Just his voice is left?
More than that.
He's still here.
Myst: Insults
of that nature...
Especially from
the likes of you...
This must be...
It has to be
the creature's...
Myst: Quite so.
Myst: Behold, Avan and
his doomed disciples...
My true form.
A life form made out of gas?
No. I'd say it's better to
think of such a beast...
as a conscious
mass of Dark Aura.
He assumed a gaseous form...
in order to take
possession of Vearn's body.
Normally, he'd only enshroud
it under the Raiment,
but when he was fighting,
he broke that seal...
and used the body to attack.
Maam [thought]: What
this ghost thing did
to Popp and Grand Master...
It's unforgivable.
He'll pay!
Maam, wait!
[charging roar]
Myst: [devious snarl]
Miss Maam! No!
Myst: You silly girl.
Physical attacks
won't work on me -
I have no physical form.
Come at me carelessly...
and look what happens!
[pained cry]
Myst: This is the price you
pay for such foolishness.
As your master deduced,
I am indeed a mass
of Dark Aura...
An entity that is
something between
a gaseous life
form and a ghost.
Like a pearl of darkness,
I was born from the evil
thoughts which have festered
over thousands of years
in the Underworld.
While I may be without
a physical form,
my fighting instinct remains.
And with those instincts
I developed the ability to
take control of other
living creatures...
Like so.
[screaming]
Myst: Once I've
captured my target,
all I need to do is
erase their soul
and the body is
mine to inhabit.
Before the Dark King found me,
I roamed the Underworld,
leaping from one mighty
creature to the next,
growing in power.
It was all I could do...
Until Vearn gave me purpose.
So that explains it, then.
The reason you never
lost respect for
warriors of great strength.
Hadlar or Baran
or even Lon Beruk...
is because they have
something you don't:
a body of their own.
Myst: Exactly.
While I may be able to
wield tremendous strength
simply by stealing
the form of another...
I cannot grow strong
through my own efforts alone.
Anyone who can is worthy
of the utmost respect.
In fact, I envy them.
Myst: There's no need to look at
me with such pity, Crocodine.
Myst: Thanks to this
accursed nature of mine,
I was able to meet King Vearn.
And His Majesty said it best:
"This is your destiny, Myst.
You were born to serve as
my trusted right-hand man."
Don't you see
the beauty of it?
The Dark King
required my abilities,
and I needed a great
master like him.
With or without his body,
I must continue
to do his bidding!
[agonized howl]
Let her go!
Chiu: You can take
my body instead...
Just leave Miss Maam alone!
Out of my way.
Huh?
[shocked gasps]
Hmm. This is even
better than I thought.
I didn't realize she
had so much strength.
He's taken over Maam's body...
what are we supposed to do now?
There's only one thing to do,
and I suggest you
hold nothing back.
That is... assuming any
of you actually has
the nerve to attack
one of your own.
Don't underestimate me.
One doesn't win a fight if they
aren't willing to risk a loss.
There's no way
you're as strong
with Maam's body as
you were with Vearn's.
It doesn't matter
what happens to her
if we're able to eliminate
Master Dai's enemy,
right here and now.
Are you hearing yourself?
It does matter. Shame on you!
And, you... you too, Myst.
Taking a hostage like this to
force us into a stalemate...
That's hardly a
strategy befitting
the likes of you, isn't it?
Oh, please. "Hostage?"
Now you're
underestimating me.
If you think I'm
using your friend
as a shield to defend myself,
I can assure you,
you're mistaken.
Because as it happens, under my
control, this young woman...
is even capable of this.
[roaring]
Hold on!
Crocodine [thought]:
Is this really still Maam?
She's so strong...
She's too strong!
So, do you see what I mean?
You really should've
heeded my warning.
I wasn't bluffing when I told
you not to hold anything back.
Perhaps you never noticed,
but this girl usually
suppresses her full power
out of concern
for her enemies.
Only, now that she's
under my control,
I'd like to explore
what she can really do.
The results are interesting.
Hyunckel [thought]: Maam
can't hang on much longer...
You want to see nerve?
Here it comes.
It's a shame to have
to do this to Maam...
but with my Aura Knuckle,
I think I can blow Myst
away once and for all.
Perhaps one of you
actually is serious.
Stand down, Hym.
You mustn't!
Unless you have a
trick up your sleeve,
your punch would
pulverize Maam as well.
You think I don't know that?
For this to work,
there's no other way.
I'm sorry to say this,
but it's a necessary
price for victory...
We have to do it.
Otherwise, there's no attack
that can defeat Myst alone.
Hyunckel: You're
wrong... There is.
Avan [thought]: He's right...
The Air Technique.
Avan [thought]: I can use
it easily enough,
but to strike down Myst
while leaving Maam unscathed
will be a difficult.
This is going to take
a bit of finesse...
I would do it myself.
Hyunckel: If I could
move like I used to,
I wouldn't ask you to do it.
But perhaps it's
better this way.
Hyunckel: Maam is a
true Disciple of Avan.
She has more faith in
the power of light and
the legendary skill
of the great Hero
than the rest of your
followers combined.
And thanks to her,
I have faith in it, too.
Avan [thought]: Well, well.
This is what it means to
learn from your own student.
May I borrow that?
I'll use Avan Style
Spear Technique...
The Air Strike!
Will this actually work?
I don't know, Hym.
I honestly don't know...
Crocodine [thought]: We're
counting on you, Sir Avan.
Maam's counting on you.
She's running for it! Now!
Air Strike!
Oh no... Did it work?!
[astonished gasp]
Looks like he got
her back to normal.
It has to have worked, right?
We aren't finished -
right before I hit her that
creature left Maam's body.
Any of us could be
his next target.
Hym: Damnit!
Where the hell
did that thing go?
I think... His next
target might be...
Myst: None other
than you, Hyunckel!
[howling]
Myst: That's exactly right.
As a matter of fact...
I've been after you
from the very beginning.
Hyunckel, no!
He has permanent injuries.
Even if Myst takes him over,
he's not in any shape to fight.
Why would he go after him?
Let's cut him loose before
we worry about that.
Here we go.
One more time...
Air Strike!
He deflected it...
without even trying!
There could be no
stopping this now.
Hyunckel's body is
filling with Dark Aura...
It's strength is growing!
What? Are you sure?
Makes sense to me.
How else could he have deflected
a light attack like that?
Myst: [evil laughter]
How observant!
This is why I chose Hyunckel!
Myst: The girl was merely
a temporary vessel.
I never cared if
I got to keep her.
But this one is
another story...
Myst: His injuries
are irrelevant.
Even if his entire
body is broken...
Pain is meaningless to me.
You're planning to leap
through every one of us
until you've run all our bodies
into the ground, aren't you?
You slippery fiend!
Myst: Not so.
This body will be the last.
Myst: You know I've been
grooming Hyunckel to serve
as my permanent residence
for over a decade.
I've prepared his body
specifically for the day
when I would be
required to return
the Dark King's true form.
Crocodine: [shocked gasp]
Avan [thought]:
This Aura's power...
Myst radiated the same amount
when he was fused with Vearn.
Myst: Feast your eyes...
upon the birth of
the new Dark Warrior!
Has he erased
Hyunckel's soul?
Somebody, go cover the others!
Hyunckel: Myst...
Myst: I'm right
here, Hyunckel,
moving through the depths
of your consciousness.
It's quite a marvel to
hear your inner voice...
but is that a hint
of alarm I detect?
It will all be
over soon enough.
Once your soul is extinguished,
this mighty vessel will be mine,
and I'll grind your
friends to dust!
[evil cackle]
Narrator: As Myst
invades Hyunckel's mind,
the pair battle for
control of his body,
and the fate of his soul
itself hangs in the balance.
Meanwhile, with the Dark
King's true form revealed,
Dai must cast aside his
doubts and match the terror of
his rival's undivided strength
with his ultimate attack.
But against the
might of True Vearn,
can our Hero land
the first blow?
Find out on
the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Demonic Guard
of Heaven and Earth".